
Thanks to the efficiency of our global financial infrastructure, clearing services are these days viewed as a commodity business. In other words, all treasurers expect flawless settlement of high value, cross-border treasury and commercial payment instructions every time, by all their financial institutions.

Deep and continuing investment by the banking industry in SWIFT, the interbank messaging network, in the national high value clearing systems in the different countries, and in upcoming settlement mechanisms such as Continuous Linked Settlement (CLS), have ensured these necessary levels of timeliness and reliability. As a result, the focus of attention has lately moved away from the technical aspects of settlement to considerations of liquidity and operational risk management.

In a trading environment, clients and their financial institutions go to great lengths to confirm the intent of the global counterparties in the trade to reduce the risk of non-payment. Unexpected operational issues can cause payments not to be made on time and on contract. The CLS network creates an environment where both halves of the exchange do not flow unless they both settle - eliminating the need to back value and deal with laborious compensation issues - and reducing the industry risk in payment settlements.

There is a definite trend in clearing services towards more user-driven interoperability between financial institutions and corporations. Last June (2010), SWIFT announced corporate access to its messaging network via closed user groups set up by sponsoring banks. This means that corporates will be able to communicate with their banking partners directly using the same message standards, software and network that the banks use to communicate with each other.

The use of the SWIFT format, across the banks and their clients, reduces implementation costs to establish and switch, and ensures improved processing through better Straight through Processing.

Another continuing trend is the imperative of timely information about transactions as well as the underlying settlement itself. We see an increasing volume of ad hoc inquiries for various types of data about transactions - this data can be invaluable to treasurers for error reduction, performance measurement and trendbased analysis. Clearly, there is an opportunity to provide information tools and informed data, enabling customers to search, aggregate and analyse the data that banks hold about their transactions.

Pinpointing the exact position during and anticipated at the end of day through improved information exchange, will support our clients working capital optimization programs. Also, it will ultimately reduce operating costs due to errors, which can now be corrected same day.

These are some of the ways in which we believe financial institutions distinguish themselves from their competitors when it comes to delivering integrated clearing services across the liquidity, risk and information elements of the transaction.

